{\rtf1\ansi\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0\fswiss Arial;}}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue196;\red192\green192\blue192;\red0\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;}
{\stylesheet{\fs24 \snext0 Normal;}
}\pard\plain
{\up +}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up +} BROWSE0001:0001}
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Table of Contents}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} D162T1}
\pard\keepn {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} Table of Contents}
\b\fs24\cf1\cb2 Table of Contents\plain\fs18\cf1\cb3 
\par \pard \plain\fs24 \line
\fs18\cf4\cb3 
\par \{bml bm0.BMP\}
\par \line
\uldb Introduction\plain\fs18\cf4\cb3 {\v D162T2}\line
\uldb AoKTS FAQ\plain\fs18\cf4\cb3 {\v D162T3}\line
\line
\b\ul\cf5 Main AoKTS Dialog\plain\fs18\cf4\cb3 \line
\uldb Info/Messages\plain\fs18\cf4\cb3 {\v D162T4}\line
\uldb Players\plain\fs18\cf4\cb3 {\v D162T5}\line
\uldb Global Victory\plain\fs18\cf4\cb3 {\v D162T6}\line
\uldb Disables\plain\fs18\cf4\cb3 {\v D162T7}\line
\uldb Terrain\plain\fs18\cf4\cb3 {\v D162T8}\line
\uldb Units\plain\fs18\cf4\cb3 {\v D162T9}\line
\uldb Triggers\plain\fs18\cf4\cb3 {\v D162K0}\line
\line
\b\ul\cf5 Dialogs\plain\fs18\cf4\cb3 \line
\uldb Statistics\plain\fs18\cf4\cb3 {\v D162K1}\line
\uldb Condition Editor\plain\fs18\cf4\cb3 {\v D162K2}\line
\uldb Effect Editor\plain\fs18\cf4\cb3 {\v D162K3}\line
    \uldb Unit Select\plain\fs18\cf4\cb3 {\v D162K4}\line
\line
\b\ul\cf5 Other Information\plain\fs18\cf4\cb3 \line
\uldb Guides\plain\fs18\cf4\cb3 {\v D162K5}\line
\uldb Changelog\plain\fs18\cf4\cb3 {\v D162K6}\line
\uldb Links\plain\fs18\cf4\cb3 {\v D162K7}\line
\uldb Thanks to...\plain\fs18\cf4\cb3 {\v D162K8}\line
\ul Credits\plain\fs18\cf4\cb3 {\v SHM_contents0019}\line
\line
Last Updated: 7/17/05\line
\plain\fs24 
\par \page
{\up +}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up +} BROWSE0001:0002}
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Explanation of AoKTS - An Introduction}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} D162T2}
\pard\keepn {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} Explanation of AoKTS - An Introduction;What AoKTS Can Do;What AoKTS Cannot Do Yet;What AoKTS Will Never Do}
\b\cf1\cb2 Explanation of AoKTS - An Introduction\plain\fs18\cf1\cb3 
\par \pard \plain\fs24 \line
\fs18\cf4\cb3 AOK Trigger Studio is an open-source utility for Age of Empires II Scenario Designers that serves as a supplement to the standard AOK editor. It allows a designer to do things that just aren't possible and are just very time consuming with the standard editor. It is written in C++ using the standard Win32 API.\line
\line
\b\ul What AOKTS Can Do\plain\fs18\cf4\cb3 \line
Decompress a scenario into a format readable by geeks. \line
Place units anywhere on a map, including on the same tile as another unit. \line
Place Beta units just like any other unit. \line
Allow negative tributes and damages. \line
Export AI files included in a scenario. \line
Copy, Cut, and Paste triggers. \line
Group units with custom lists, other than the 4 standard AOK groups. \line
\line
\b\ul What AOKTS Cannot Do Yet (in order of priority)\plain\fs18\cf4\cb3 \line
Automatically place units in 'formation' style. \line
Create a scenario from scratch. \line
Create common triggers using customizeable templates. \line
Display a minimap with view type options. \line
\line
\b\ul What AOKTS Will Never Do\plain\fs18\cf4\cb3 \line
Replace the editor provided by Ensemble Studios. \line
Place units graphically. (You must use map coordinates.) \line
Add more effect or condition types. (This is just not possible.) \line
Implement an area for Change Object Name effect. \line
Make a map larger than 256x256. \line
\line
--To do--\line
(in order of precendence)\line
- modeless effect/condition editors for editing multiple at once\line
- click&drag triggers to change order\line
- textual trigger export\line
- effect text colors\line
- more specific error reporting\line
- good map copy\line
- complete tech list\line
- trigger scripting\line
- Minimap\line
\line
\uldb \b Table of Contents\plain\b\fs18\cf4\cb3 {\v D162T1}\plain\fs18\cf4\cb3 \line
\line
--Notes and legal--\line
Please DO NOT SAVE OVER your original scenarios with this program. I'd really hate for you to lose all your hard work with a bug!\line
If anyone wants to port this for MacOS, the scenario reading itself is cross platform. Contact digit if you're interested.\line
\line
AOK Trigger Studio (AOKTS): Copyright (c) 2004 David Tombs. Permission to give away copies for non-commercial use granted. Do not make any changes to or sell AOKTS without express permission by the author (David Tombs). \line
Zlib compression library Copyright (C) 1995-2002 Jean-loup Gailly and Mark Adler\line
Any loss or damage to your computer or work is not the responsibility of the author.\line
\plain\fs24 
\par \page
{\up +}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up +} BROWSE0001:0003}
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} AoKTS FAQ}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} D162T3}
\pard\keepn {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} Answers;AoKTS FAQ;Facts;FAQs;Questions;Tricks}
\b\cf1\cb2 AoKTS FAQ\plain\fs18\cf1\cb3 
\par \pard \plain\fs24 \line
\b\fs18\cf4\cb3 Q1\plain\fs18\cf4\cb3 : How do I know what version of AoKTS I have?\line
\b A1\plain\fs18\cf4\cb3 : #1 - Just right-click on aokts.exe, click "properties", then go to the "Version" tab. That should always be up-to-date.  #2 - Open AoKTS, click Help, then click About.\line
\line
\b Q2\plain\fs18\cf4\cb3 : What is Ore X for?\line
\b A2\plain\fs18\cf4\cb3 : "I don't know if this will ever be useful, but my general opinion in AOKTS is "If it's there, make it changeable." Maybe someday Berserker Jerker will find a way to detect a player's OreX stockpile with AI."\line
\line
\b Q3\plain\fs18\cf4\cb3 : Where do I get the latest version?\line
\b A3\plain\fs18\cf4\cb3 : At the website.\line
\line
\b Q4\plain\fs18\cf4\cb3 : How do you add a new unit?\line
\b A4\plain\fs18\cf4\cb3 : Just add a new unit, then select the type you want in the list to the right. Remember you can type in the first letters and the listbox will scroll for you. (Ex: Type "Joa" and it will most likely select Joan of Arc for you.)\line
\line
\b Q5\plain\fs18\cf4\cb3 :  A lot of the units you have listed have a D next to them, and some of them say dead. Is there a guide somewhere that tells me what all the abreviations are?\line
\b A5\plain\fs18\cf4\cb3 : All the unit type names are copied directly from the Complete Constants Lists utility. 'D' stands for dead. Disabled means ES disabled them from in game. IIRC, these units will crash the game. The ones that say "crash" are non-existant units that will crash the game.\line
\line
\b Q6\plain\fs18\cf4\cb3 : Why, in some menus, do you have more than 8 players listed?\line
\b A6\plain\fs18\cf4\cb3 : There is room for 16 players in the scenario file. After I experiment with it a bit, I might either remove the ability to modify stuff for the extra players or add the extra players to the players tab so you can activate them. (I have no clue how AOK will take that.)\line
\line
\b Q7\plain\fs18\cf4\cb3 : Why is there no undo feature?\line
\b A7\plain\fs18\cf4\cb3 : Undo is very complicated and hard feature to make.\line
\line
\b Q8\plain\fs18\cf4\cb3 : What do you mean by this? Open the "effect editor" window? If I'm looking for longboats, I can type L and it finds the first thing beginning with L. But if I type LO it goes to the next thing beginning with O, instead of something beginning with Lo. Or did you mean something else?\line
\b A8\plain\fs18\cf4\cb3 : The boxes with the drop-down list are officially called "Combo Boxes" because they combine a listbox and an editbox. But don't worry about why. 
\par \pard \{bml bm1.BMP\}
\par The vertical line is what I've typed to far ("har"), and it found Harald Hardraad.\line
\line
\b Q9\plain\fs18\cf4\cb3 : How do you decompress the scenario to format readable by geeks? You said that you could on your website.\line
\b A9\plain\fs18\cf4\cb3 : "a format readable by geeks" is simply in hexplorer. That's the reason I said "by geeks". You can reference scx_format.txt to find what you're looking for in it, but it's count to involve a lot of counting. There's no way to convert it into a textual format yet.\line
\line
\b Q10\plain\fs18\cf4\cb3 : Is this thing OK to use now, or is it still in development?\line
\b A10\plain\fs18\cf4\cb3 : Well, it's "OK" to use, but not very safe. Make sure you save a backup of your scenario before its even been touched by AOKTS so if there's a bad bug I don't know about yet, you won't lose anything.\line
\line
\b Q11\plain\fs18\cf4\cb3 : Is it possible to edit the far right-most tile on a giant map using aokts? If so what numbers do you put into the x and y coordinates?\line
\b A11\plain\fs18\cf4\cb3 : The far west will be 0,0 and far east will by 255,255 on a 256x256 map.\line
\line
\b Q12\plain\fs18\cf4\cb3 : What is that "Academy Disbled" thingy all about? Where does the word acedemy come from? That was a unit in AoE but it's not a beta unit in AoK, so it's rather confusing. Does it just mean that the unit can't be placed on the map? For example boats can't be placed on land, big building can't be placed on the edge (I don't think), and all Gaia units can't be placed if they are still in Player 1. \line
\b A12\plain\fs18\cf4\cb3 : What you have to do is add a unit, click it in the listbox, and then modify its properties.\line
\line
\b Q13\plain\fs18\cf4\cb3 : Why, in the Units list for the scenario, don't some objects' ids start at 0 instead of 472, or something else?\line
\b A13\plain\fs18\cf4\cb3 : Unit IDs go across player, each unit has its own unique ID. There's probably and ID of 0 somewhere in the scenario, or possibly it was deleted at some point.\line
\line
\b Q14\plain\fs18\cf4\cb3 : Is AoKTS under the GNU General Public License?\line
\b A14\plain\fs18\cf4\cb3 : Not yet. It's what I'm going to use for AOKTS eventually, I like it. I'm also releasing the source of AOKTS knowing that someone might still me "intellectualy property", but you just have to face the fact that stupid people are just going to do that. I think the benefit for the non-stupid people is worth it.\line
\line
\b Q15\plain\fs18\cf4\cb3 : Is it possible to rename garrisoned units with AOKTS, e.g. a guy who is already inside a ram at the beginning of the game?\line
\b A15\plain\fs18\cf4\cb3 : Yes it is very easy. Place your stuff, then simply look at the ID for the unit inside the ram (not the aok unit ID, the ID that is listed in AoKTS for a unit), and set this ID for the change name trigger. Remember to turn the trigger on, as the default is off for AoKTS. \line
\line
\b Q16\plain\fs18\cf4\cb3 : When I tried it, something went wrong. It said "A required .DLL file, ZLIB1.DLL, was not found." Is it supposed to be included within the file?\line
\b A16\plain\fs18\cf4\cb3 : Download the .DLL and place it in the directory you extracted AoKTS into. It was not included in the zip because it would have made the file larger.\line
\line
\b Q17\plain\fs18\cf4\cb3 : Is it possible to move triggers up and down the list like in the editor?\line
\b A17\plain\fs18\cf4\cb3 : Yes, it's possible to move triggers around, just annoying. You have to use cut and paste.\line
\line
\b Q18\plain\fs18\cf4\cb3 : Can (or could) Trigger Studio also control which way newly created units face?\line
\b A19\plain\fs18\cf4\cb3 : Unless by some random chance ES put a rotation value in one of the unknown effect structure fields, no. And that\'b4s pretty unlikely, sadly. :/\line
\line
\b Q20\plain\fs18\cf4\cb3 : Do you know why there are many Gates in the "All" unit list, such as "Gate, DX3" or "Gate, BB2"\line
\b A20\plain\fs18\cf4\cb3 : Because there are several gate units... I believe that the normal Gate unit in the AoK Map Editor is actually 2 units... the ends and the gate itself. Then you have the gate's open/close positions, and all the different orientations... You get a lot of gate units that way.\line
\line
\b Q21\plain\fs18\cf4\cb3 : What program do you use to read SCX/SCN files? Obviously a text editor will show you nothing you can interpret, but the Hex editor I have is crap, and still doesn't seem to show anything. So it must be some sort of decoder/hex editor? Are there some I can download free?\line
\b A21\plain\fs18\cf4\cb3 : I use hexplorer. But remember, look at the decompressed file dumped by AOKTS and not the SCN/SCX itself, because that's a load of bunk. To prevent AOKTS from deleting the decompressed file, uncomment "DelOnExit=0" from the aokts.ini.\line
\line
\b Q22\plain\fs18\cf4\cb3 : In the units section, what does "Constant: ..." mean?\line
\b A22\plain\fs18\cf4\cb3 : That's the numerical constant represented by each item in the listbox to the right.  AOK doesn't see an archer as "Archer", it sees it as "4".\line
\line
\b Q23\plain\fs18\cf4\cb3 : Somewhere a lot earlier you mentioned that the max trigger amount is 1256, I think, or around that amount. Is this still the case? I've got something planned involving duplication of triggers that will go way over that amount - is it possible to expand it higher?\line
\b A23\plain\fs18\cf4\cb3 : No, it should be limited only by RAM right now.\line
\line
\b Q24\plain\fs18\cf4\cb3 : I understand that the .per AI files are encoded into the scx file - is there the possibility of swapping AI personalities in-game?\line
\b A24\plain\fs18\cf4\cb3 : Well, it's actually possible to include miscellaneous files at the end of the scenario. ES did it a lot in their campaigns. All you'd have to do is include an AI script for each personality, then have the AI script for the player include each of the AI scripts or something. I'm not exactly sure how it would work since I don't do AI.\line
\line
\b Q25\plain\fs18\cf4\cb3 : What does the "Timestamp: ..." mean?\line
\b A25\plain\fs18\cf4\cb3 : The "Timestamp:" is just when the scenario was last saved by AOK. AOKTS doesn't update the timestamp when it saves just because I was lazy, but really the modified date you can see by going to the file properties should be enough.\line
\line
\b Q26\plain\fs18\cf4\cb3 : Is it possible to expand the map sizes beyond 256*256? Every time I try and do this, either the map doesn't work (crashes back to desktop) or the Trigger Studio freezes.\line
\b A26\plain\fs18\cf4\cb3 : 256 is the AOK limit.\line
\plain\fs24 
\par \page
{\up +}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up +} BROWSE0001:0004}
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Info/Messages}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} D162T4}
\pard\keepn {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} Hints;History;Info/Messages;Instructions;Loss;Scouts;Victory}
\b\cf1\cb2 Info/Messages\plain\fs18\cf1\cb3 
\par \pard \plain\fs24 \line
\fs18\cf4\cb3 
\par \{bml bm2.BMP\}
\par \line
Enter Hints, History, Instructions, Loss, Scouts, and Victory messages here.\line
To export the instruction background, click \b Export Bitmap\plain\fs18\cf4\cb3 \line
\line
\uldb Players\plain\fs18\cf4\cb3 {\v D162T5}\line
\uldb Table of Contents\plain\fs18\cf4\cb3 {\v D162T1}\line
\line
\line
Copyright 2004-2005 David Tombs\line
\plain\fs24 
\par \page
{\up +}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up +} BROWSE0001:0005}
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Players}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} D162T5}
\pard\keepn {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} Player 1;Player 10;Player 2;Player 3;Player 4;Player 5;Player 6;Player 7;Player 8;Player 9;Player Data;Players}
\b\cf1\cb2 Players\plain\fs18\cf1\cb3 
\par \pard \plain\fs24 \line
\fs18\cf4\cb3 
\par \{bml bm3.BMP\}
\par \line
Enter all player data in the fields.\line
To switch which player is currently selected, click a different player, etc. Player 2, Player 3..., than what is currently selected.\line
Most of Gaia's player data cannot be changed.\line
\line
\uldb Info/Messages\plain\fs18\cf4\cb3 {\v D162T4}\line
\uldb Global Victory\plain\fs18\cf4\cb3 {\v D162T6}\line
\uldb Table of Contents\plain\fs18\cf4\cb3 {\v D162T1}\line
\line
\line
Copyright 2004-2005 David Tombs\line
\plain\fs24 
\par \page
{\up +}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up +} BROWSE0001:0006}
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Global Victory}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} D162T6}
\pard\keepn {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} Global Victory;Victory Conditions}
\b\cf1\cb2 Global Victory\plain\fs18\cf1\cb3 
\par \pard \plain\fs24 \line
\fs18\cf4\cb3 
\par \{bml bm4.BMP\}
\par \line
\uldb Players\plain\fs18\cf4\cb3 {\v D162T5}\line
\uldb Disables\plain\fs18\cf4\cb3 {\v D162T7}\line
\uldb Table of Contents\plain\fs18\cf4\cb3 {\v D162T1}\line
\line
\line
Copyright 2004-2005 David Tombs\line
\plain\fs24 
\par \page
{\up +}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up +} BROWSE0001:0007}
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Disables}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} D162T7}
\pard\keepn {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} Disables;Disables List}
\b\cf1\cb2 Disables\plain\fs18\cf1\cb3 
\par \pard \plain\fs24 \line
\fs18\cf4\cb3 
\par \{bml bm5.BMP\}
\par \line
\uldb Global Victory\plain\fs18\cf4\cb3 {\v D162T6}\line
\uldb Terrain\plain\fs18\cf4\cb3 {\v D162T8}\line
\uldb Table of Contents\plain\fs18\cf4\cb3 {\v D162T1}\line
\line
\line
Copyright 2004-2005 David Tombs\line
\plain\fs24 
\par \page
{\up +}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up +} BROWSE0001:0008}
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Terrain}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} D162T8}
\pard\keepn {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} Add Terrain;AI Type;Change Terrain;Insert Terrain;Map Size;Terrain}
\b\cf1\cb2 Terrain\plain\fs18\cf1\cb3 
\par \pard \plain\fs24 \line
\fs18\cf4\cb3 
\par \{bml bm6.BMP\}
\par \line
\uldb Disables\plain\fs18\cf4\cb3 {\v D162T7}\line
\uldb Units\plain\fs18\cf4\cb3 {\v D162T9}\line
\uldb Table of Contents\plain\fs18\cf4\cb3 {\v D162T1}\line
\line
\line
Copyright 2004-2005 David Tombs\line
\plain\fs24 
\par \page
{\up +}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up +} BROWSE0001:0009}
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Units}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} D162T9}
\pard\keepn {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} Delete Units;Insert Units;Units;Units List}
\b\cf1\cb2 Units\plain\fs18\cf1\cb3 
\par \pard \plain\fs24 \line
\fs18\cf4\cb3 
\par \{bml bm7.BMP\}
\par \line
To add a new unit, select the unit you want to add to the scenario, select what player you want to give it to, then click \b Add New\plain\fs18\cf4\cb3 .\line
To delete a unit, select a unit, then click \b Delete Current\plain\fs18\cf4\cb3 .\line
To change the X/Y-Pos of a unit, select the unit, then type the X/Y coordinates into the fields.\line
To change the rotation of a unit, select the unit, then select the rotation in the rotation listbox.\line
\line
\uldb Terrain\plain\fs18\cf4\cb3 {\v D162T8}\line
\uldb Triggers\plain\fs18\cf4\cb3 {\v D162K0}\line
\uldb Table of Contents\plain\fs18\cf4\cb3 {\v D162T1}\line
\line
\line
Copyright 2004-2005 David Tombs\line
\plain\fs24 
\par \page
{\up +}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up +} BROWSE0001:000a}
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Triggers}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} D162K0}
\pard\keepn {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} Add Conditions;Add Effects;Add Triggers;Delete Triggers;Modify Triggers;Triggers}
\b\cf1\cb2 Triggers\plain\fs18\cf1\cb3 
\par \pard \plain\fs24 \line
\fs18\cf4\cb3 
\par \{bml bm8.BMP\}
\par \line
The trigger list is on the left.\line
To show what effects and/or conditions are in that trigger, click the + or double-click on the trigger.\line
To edit an effect or condition, click \b Edit\plain\fs18\cf4\cb3 .\line
To create a new trigger click \b New Trigger\plain\fs18\cf4\cb3 .\line
To create a new condition click \b New Condition\plain\fs18\cf4\cb3 .\line
To create a new effect click \b New Effect\plain\fs18\cf4\cb3 .\line
To duplicate a trigger, select a trigger and click \b Duplicate\plain\fs18\cf4\cb3 .\line
To duplicate a condition/effect, select the condition or effect, then click \b Duplicate\plain\fs18\cf4\cb3 .\line
To rename a trigger, single-click a trigger and then type in the name of that trigger.\line
\line
\uldb Units\plain\fs18\cf4\cb3 {\v D162T9}\line
\uldb Statistics\plain\fs18\cf4\cb3 {\v D162K1}\line
\uldb Table of Contents\plain\fs18\cf4\cb3 {\v D162T1}\line
\line
\line
Copyright 2004-2005 David Tombs\line
\plain\fs24 
\par \page
{\up +}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up +} BROWSE0001:000b}
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Statistics}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} D162K1}
\pard\keepn {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} Statistics}
\b\cf1\cb2 Statistics\plain\fs18\cf1\cb3 
\par \pard \plain\fs24 \line
\fs18\cf4\cb3 
\par \{bml bm9.BMP\}
\par \line
Displays the statistics of the current scenario.\line
\line
\ul Descriptions\plain\fs18\cf4\cb3 \line
Players: # of players\line
Units: # of units for each player (1-8)\line
Total: Total # of units for each player + Gaia\line
Triggers: Total # of triggers\line
Conditons: Total # of conditions\line
Effects: Total # of effects\line
\line
\uldb Triggers\plain\fs18\cf4\cb3 {\v D162K0}\line
\uldb Condition Editor\plain\fs18\cf4\cb3 {\v D162K2}\line
\uldb Table of Contents\plain\fs18\cf4\cb3 {\v D162T1}\line
\line
\line
Copyright 2004-2005 David Tombs\line
\plain\fs24 
\par \page
{\up +}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up +} BROWSE0001:000c}
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Condition Editor}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} D162K2}
\pard\keepn {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} Add Condition;Condition Editor;Create Condition;Edit Condition;Insert Condition}
\b\cf1\cb2 Condition Editor\plain\fs18\cf1\cb3 
\par \pard \plain\fs24 \line
\fs18\cf4\cb3 
\par \{bml bm10.BMP\}
\par \line
\ul Instructions\plain\fs18\cf4\cb3 \line
Select the condition you want.\line
Fill in the corresponding data concerning that condition.\line
Press Ok.\line
\line
\uldb Statistics\plain\fs18\cf4\cb3 {\v D162K1}\line
\uldb Effect Editor\plain\fs18\cf4\cb3 {\v D162K3}\line
\uldb Table of Contents\plain\fs18\cf4\cb3 {\v D162T1}\line
\plain\fs24 
\par \page
{\up +}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up +} BROWSE0001:000d}
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Effect Editor}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} D162K3}
\pard\keepn {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} Add Effect;Create Effect;Edit Effect;Effect Editor;Insert Effect}
\b\cf1\cb2 Effect Editor\plain\fs18\cf1\cb3 
\par \pard \plain\fs24 \line
\fs18\cf4\cb3 
\par \{bml bm11.BMP\}
\par \line
\ul Instructions\plain\fs18\cf4\cb3 \line
Select the effect you want.\line
Fill in the corresponding data concerning that effect.\line
Press Ok.\line
\line
\uldb Condition Editor\plain\fs18\cf4\cb3 {\v D162K2}\line
\uldb Unit Select\plain\fs18\cf4\cb3 {\v D162K4}\line
\uldb Table of Contents\plain\fs18\cf4\cb3 {\v D162T1}\line
\plain\fs24 
\par \page
{\up +}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up +} BROWSE0001:000e}
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Unit Select}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} D162K4}
\pard\keepn {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} Select Unit;Unit Select}
\b\cf1\cb2 Unit Select\plain\fs18\cf1\cb3 
\par \pard \plain\fs24 \line
\fs18\cf4\cb3 
\par \{bml bm12.BMP\}
\par \line
\ul Instructions\plain\fs18\cf4\cb3 \line
You can sort the list by ID.\line
Select unit int the list.\line
Press Ok.\line
\line
\uldb Effect Editor\plain\fs18\cf4\cb3 {\v D162K3}\line
\uldb Table of Contents\plain\fs18\cf4\cb3 {\v D162T1}\line
\plain\fs24 
\par \page
{\up +}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up +} BROWSE0001:000f}
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Guides}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} D162K5}
\pard\keepn {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} Guides;How to place any unit (including buildings) on water}
\b\cf1\cb2 Guides\plain\fs18\cf1\cb3 
\par \pard \plain\fs24 \line
\b\fs18\cf4\cb3 How to place any unit (including buildings) on water.\plain\fs18\cf4\cb3 \line
Use AOK to place a fishing ship (or any small water unit) on the tile you want to be the center of the desired unit. It must be the same player as the desired unit will be. \line
Save the scenario in AOK and open in AOKTS. \line
In the units editor, select the desired player, and select the newly placed unit. (If you sort by ID, it should be at the very bottom of the list.) \line
Now just select the desired unit type (constant) in the far right listbox and save. \line
Re-open in AOK and it's there! \line
\plain\fs24 
\par \page
{\up +}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up +} BROWSE0001:0010}
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Changelog}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} D162K6}
\pard\keepn {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} Changelog;Changes;Recent Changes}
\b\cf1\cb2 Changelog\plain\fs18\cf1\cb3 
\par \pard\tx355 \plain\fs24 \line
\fs18\cf4\cb3 5/31/04 - 0.1\line
\tab Fixed a lot of quirks.\line
\tab Player selection saves across tabs.\line
\tab Finally compresses in a format that AOK can read! (Thanks Ykkrosh!)\line
\line
8/12/04 - 0.1.1\line
\tab Finished all but triggers for scenario writing\line
\tab Changed unit names to a string table, instead of array\line
\tab Added tech names as string table\line
\tab Saves (but improperly)\line
\tab System menu close (X), now works\line
\tab Began cleaning up code a little (should make bugfixes easier)\line
\tab Minimize Box (finally)\line
\tab Sped up loading\line
\tab scx_format.txt changed (mostly) to represent psuedo-C structures\line
\line
8/12/04 - 0.2.0\line
\tab Fixed the biggest saving error. (woohoo)\line
\line
8/14/04 - 0.2.1 (bugfix release)\line
\tab Fixed a few trigger bugs.\line
\tab Improved trigger UI code.\line
\tab Improved code readability a bit more.\line
\line
8/22/04 - 0.2.2\line
\tab Changed the way units, triggers, conditions, and effects are stored in-memory.\line
\tab Added unit deletion.\line
\tab Cleared up a few things with unit list.\line
\tab Fixed unit ID problem. (Was base6, oops.)\line
\tab Tab sizes all the same. (May not cover all room, though.)\line
\tab Unit addition.\line
\tab Trigger/Condition/Effect addition & deletion.\line
\tab Fixed leftover data problem with effects.\line
\tab Added Cancel & OK buttons to Condition editor (oops).\line
\tab SCN format supported (hopefully).\line
\tab Added Trigger list to Effect editor (oops again).\line
\tab Sped up trigger loading noticeably.\line
\line
8/22/04\tab - 0.2.3\line
\tab Fixed trigger addition crash.\line
\tab Fixed incomplete compression bug.\line
\tab Fixed absence of units (oops).\line
\tab 256 Conditions/Effects per trigger.\line
\tab 1024 Triggers per scenario.\line
\line
8/25/04 - 0.2.4\line
\tab Fixed a problem with loading SCNs.\line
\tab Brought back text box with unit constant.\line
\line
9/9/04 - 0.2.5\line
\tab AI name is automatically filled in for exporting.\line
\tab Finished more immediate projects, started working again.\line
\tab Fixed a bug with Effect Type.\line
\tab Added in trigger/effect/condition duplication.\line
\tab Changing Effect/Condition type now updates active controls.\line
\tab Cleaned up map editor, thanks to The X King's map experimenting.\line
\tab Fixed a few version inconsistencies, thanks to Queen Charlotte.\line
\tab Organized scenario loading/saving for the geeks.\line
\tab Fixed the version info tab problem.\line
\tab Fixed last known non-TC problems, thanks to Queen Charlotte.\line
\tab Fixed a bug in which units were "saved" across scenarios.\line
\line
9/25/04 - 0.2.6\line
Features:\line
\tab Condition/Effect lists now show type instead of number.\line
\tab AI/Bitmap exporting now automatically selects the correct directory.\line
Bugfixes:\line
\tab Correct trigger now displayed in activate/deactivate trigger effects.\line
\tab Map enlarging now works correctly.\line
\tab No more out-of-bounds errors for units or triggers. (Very rare before, anyway.)\line
\tab No more occasional trigger-deletion crashes.\line
\tab Unit constant number now updates when a new one is selected.\line
\tab Removed an undocumented 256 effect/condition limit during loading.\line
\tab Player 1's initial view now correctly displayed. (It was ES's fault.)\line
Known Issues:\line
\tab Making a map smaller will cause AOK to crash.\line
\line
10/22/04 - 0.2.7\line
Bugfixes:\line
\tab Trigger display order wasn't written to scenario correctly. (Why didn't anybody tell me about this?)\line
\tab Effect object unit selection didn't save.\line
\tab Condition adding sometimes caused memory corruption.\line
\tab Effect/Condition editor controls didn't update when the type was changed.\line
\tab Target player wasn't enabled when editing a Send Tribute effect.\line
\tab Scenario wasn't closed properly if an error occured while opening.\line
\tab OK, Cancel, Apply buttons showed up at the bottom of the editor if an error ocurred during program initialization.\line
\tab Update of current editor dialog wasn't completely reliable if a new scenario was opened.\line
\tab A memory leak ocurred involving empty strings in a scenario.\line
\tab Player diplomacy weren't displayed correctly.\line
\tab Unit changes weren't saved if the unit constant was changed.\line
\tab Trigger list got corrupted if a trigger was deleted.\line
\tab Units added by AOKTS weren't displayed in AOK.\line
\tab Revamped Trigger Tree code (phew) for improved stability.\line
\tab Attempting to edit an Effect/Condition's name caused the window to flicker.\line
\tab High unit IDs displayed negative.\line
\tab Create Object, Task Object, Unload, and Place Foundation effect editing didn't allow modificated of the y-location control.\line
\tab Terrain editor doesn't allow more than 3 numbers in the selection boxes.\line
\tab Change Diplomacy effect editing didn't allow modification to target player.\line
\line
Features:\line
\tab Accelerator keys (Ctrl+O and Ctrl+S) now work.\line
\tab Faster loading and saving of scenarios. (No noticeable delay ever on my 1.3gHz machine.)\line
\tab Scenario opening now possible using command line parameters. (See How to Use section.)\line
\tab More user-friendly map/terrain editor dialog.\line
\tab Effect text and messages modification faster. (Delay probably wasn't noticeable on anything above 90MHz anyway.)\line
\tab Improved unit editor.\line
\tab aokts.ini now supported. (Contains settings for decompressed file only, for now.)\line
\tab Closing a scenario now updates the current window instead of switching to the messages editor.\line
\tab Adding and duplicating a trigger now inserts the new node after the current selection (instead of the bottom of the tree).\line
\line
03/15/05 - 0.2.8\line
Bugfixes:\line
\tab Objective order didn't load properly.\line
\tab Selecting GAIA in the player editor allowed edits of non-editable stats.\line
\tab Trigger editor was just plain unreliable.\line
\tab Changes in effect/condition editors still saved even if dialog canceled.\line
\tab Resource controls in effect/condition editors now function. (Thanks zyxomma.)\line
\tab Some triggers were sometimes double-displayed after deleting a trigger.\line
\tab Condition editor didn't save player value changes. (Thanks Hamster.)\line
\tab Player values were offset in conditions & effects. (Thanks Hamster.)\line
\tab Diplomacy wasn't saved correctly. (Thanks askmiky.)\line
\tab Effect editor's trigger index and unit constant controls allowed user-typed values.\line
\tab Effect editor's trigger index control sometimes double-displayed triggers after deleting one.\line
\tab Triggers were saved backwards in scenario file.\line
\tab Disables editor can now display disables, but not edit them.\line
\tab Trigger tree took an unnecessarily long time to reset when new scenario opened.\line
\tab Failure to export bitmap wasn't reported.\line
\tab Unit constants were corrupted in AOK after saving with AOKTS.\line
\tab AOKTS occasionally crashed during scenario reset if trigger editor was active.\line
\tab Unknown Tech IDs were displayed with 1024 added to the ID value.\line
\tab Effect editor will now display all the technologies.\line
\line
Features:\line
\tab Closer to 64-bit compatability.\line
\tab Added support for editing player's OreX resource. (Useful? Probably not.)\line
\tab Trigger tree will now show current selection even if the window doesn't have focus.\line
\tab Trigger editor doesn't allow 0-length trigger names. (We'll see about this one.)\line
\tab Renamed the "Close" menu option to "Reset" to more accurately define its purpose.\line
\tab Renamed the "File" menu to "Scenario" just to break tradition. :p\line
\tab Improved error handling during scenario reading.\line
\tab Adding triggers now gives the new trigger an identifying number.\line
\tab Added controls to player editor to edit unknowns (in debug build only).\line
\tab Effects/Conditions can now be added if sibling effect/condition is selected.\line
\tab Effect editor now displays triggers in order. (Unlike AOK!)\line
\tab Marginal AOE scenario support added. (It'll at least tell you it doesn't recognize it. :-D)\line
\tab Adding a trigger now inserts it below the currently selected trigger.\line
\tab Added a status bar, along with success messages for open/save. (More messages to follow.)\line
\tab AIs can now be imported. (Beware importing from different directory.)\line
\tab Unit list can now be sorted by ID or Unit Name.\line
\tab Added a statistics dialog. (Thanks geebert.)\line
\tab Triggers can now be cut/copied/pasted.\line
\line
06/21/05 - 0.3.0\line
Known Issues:\line
\tab Unit groups don't function.\line
\tab Disables editor can only view disables, not edit them.\line
\tab Technology list is very incomplete.\line
\line
Bugfixes:\line
\tab Initial view for player 1/map editor didn't save properly.\line
\tab Adding units would cause AOKTS to become unstable.\line
\tab Could press delete button even when no unit selected.\line
\tab Leaving trigger editor was very slow when many triggers present.\line
\tab Disables didn't clear properly on scenario reset.\line
\tab A zero-length unit list for a player incorrectly returned an error.\line
\tab Condition/Effect treeview items didn't update when editor closed.\line
\tab Editor would sometimes crash during saving if a trigger had been deleted.\line
\tab Error messages would sometimes overflow into dialog values.\line
\tab Scenarios with "unknown2" values not equal to 1.22 crashed AOK when saved.\line
\line
Features:\line
\tab Individual players' unit counts now displayed in View->Statistics.\line
\tab An added unit is automatically selected.\line
\tab Unit groups now function in the unit editor.\line
\tab Sped up scenario opening some more.\line
\tab Recent files are now openable from the Scenario menu directly.\line
\tab Multiple units can now be selected in the effect editor.\line
\line
Known Issues:\line
\tab Changing a unit's type constant will not always place the string in sort order.\line
\line
06/28/05 - 0.3.1\line
Bugfixes:\line
\tab "Unrecognzied" and "Tehcnology" typos.\line
\tab Possible deadlock during scenario reading.\line
\tab If Unit Editor couldn't find the requested unit to load, it would just crash.\line
\tab Condition editor's research combobox wasn't filled with technologies list.\line
\tab Possible crashes during loading a new scenario without reseting the currently open one.\line
\tab Conquest checkbox wasn't displayed in Victory Editor.\line
\tab No ability to change a player's starting age.\line
\tab Some player attributes were not actually reset when the scenario was reset.\line
\tab GAIA control disabling was faulty. (Thanks zyxomma.)\line
\tab Source player was incorrectly enabled for Clear Instructions effect. (Thanks zyxomma.)\line
\tab "Change Object Attack" effect was mislabeled "Attack".\line
\line
Improvements:\line
\tab Map Editor now detects standard map sizes.\line
\tab Standard map size selection also shows numerical size.\line
\tab Newly created units now receive the type constant currently selected in the listbox.\line
\tab Removed delete button in trigger editor in favor of delete key.\line
\tab Pasting a trigger now selects it.\line
\tab Removed Duplicate button in favor of copy+paste.\line
\tab Instruction background is now the default selection in Info/Messages editor.\line
\tab Creating a new trigger automatically makes it active.\line
\tab Added AOK Unit groups to conditions/effects.\line
\tab Can now change where a unit is garrisoned. (Woohoo!)\line
\line
Known Issues:\line
\tab Changing a unit's type constant will not always place the string in sort order.\line
\tab Deleting a unit causes the unit editor to become unstable.\line
\tab No ability to alter all techs.\line
\plain\fs24 
\par \page
{\up +}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up +} BROWSE0001:0011}
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Links}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} D162K7}
\pard\keepn\tx355 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} Links}
\b\cf1\cb2 Links\plain\fs18\cf1\cb3 
\par \pard\tx355 \plain\fs24 \line
\uldb \fs18\cf4\cb3 Main AoKTS Webpage\plain\fs18\cf4\cb3 {\v !EF(`http://www.digitization.org/aokts.html',`',9,)}\line
\uldb Beta Version\plain\fs18\cf4\cb3 {\v !EF(`http://www.digitization.org/download/aokts.zip',`',9,)}. (Scenario format description included.)\line
\uldb ZLIB DLLs\plain\fs18\cf4\cb3 {\v !EF(`http://www.zlib.net/zlib122-dll.zip',`',9,)}\line
\uldb Complete Constants Lists\plain\fs18\cf4\cb3 {\v !EF(`http://aok.heavengames.com/blacksmith/showfile.php?fileid=5810',`',9,)}\line
\uldb hexplorer - hex editor\plain\fs18\cf4\cb3 {\v !EF(`http://artemis.wszib.edu.pl/~mdudek/',`',9,)}\line
\plain\fs24 
\par \page
{\up +}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up +} BROWSE0001:0012}
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Thanks to...}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} D162K8}
\pard\keepn {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} Thanks to...}
\b\cf1\cb2 Thanks to...\plain\fs18\cf1\cb3 
\par \pard \plain\fs24 \line
\fs18\cf4\cb3 Berserker Jerker, zyxomma, geebert, and other people that will soon populate this list! Geebert gets extra credit for his great reports when I release a new version!\line
\plain\fs24 
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Pg 19}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} SHM_contents0019}
\pard \line
\fs18\cf4\cb3 AoKTS developed by DiGiT (David Tombs)\line
Helpfile created by geebert\line
\plain\fs24 
\par \page
\pard \fs0\cf4\cb4 }